# Archiving Zendesk Based Product Documentation

This guide describes the process and tools for creating archived, version specific,  Zendesk based product documentation snapshots in the form of PDF documents which are stored in the **Archived Documentation** section of our documentation at http://help.basho.com/.

## Process

The process for creating a documentation archive is fairly straightforward, but involves some one-time preparation of the Zendesk account for users making documentation archives, and some time to establish a working environment for the documentation archiving script, `zdfversion.py`.

Here are the steps for archiving
## Environment and Setup

The most effective way to setup for using the script, is to use [virtualenv]((http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv)), and the following steps:

Establish a virtualenv:

    virtualenv zdfversion

Activate the virtualenv:

    cd zdfversion && source bin/activate

Install PyCurl:

    pip install pycurl

Obtain `zdfversion.py` from this URL:

Place `zdversion.py` into the virtualenv you created, and execute it per the instructions in the Utility Script section.

## Utility Script

The script for creating documentation snapshots is `zdfversion.py`. The script is simple, with the following usage synopsis:

    zdfversion.py -i <forum_id> -n "<new_forum_name>"

where the `-i` option specifies a Zendesk forum identifier, which is the 8-digit string that makes up part of a Zendesk forum URL. For example, in the following URL:

    https://help.basho.com/forums/20748808-operations

the forum identifier is **20748808**.

The `-n` option specifies a quoted string which will be used for the target forum's name. The target forum will be created by the script, and entries from the forum identifier specified by `-i` will then be copied into the newly created target forum.

At this point, you should be able to observe that the new forum does exist in Zendesk. You can then work with the forum like any other forum via the web interface.

## Notes

### Details of Script Operation

The `zdfversion.py` script performs a series of basic operations to snapshot existing Zendesk forum entries into a newly created target forum for the purpose of archiving documentation relevant to older product versions.

The details of its operation are as follows:

0. Creates a connection to Zendesk API
1. Fetches all entries in the forum identified by `-i` option
2. Empties the following elements from the fetched XML data so that they can be automatically generated by the API when posted into the target forum:
 *
 *
 *
3. Creates a new forum with the name specified in the `-n` option
4. Stores the forum identifier for the newly created forum
5. Posts the cleaned up XML data from source forum into new target forum

### The Zendesk API Token

In order to use the `zdfversion.py` script as demonstrated in the Utility Script section of this document, you must first generate a Zendesk API token for your account. This token helps to avoid disclosing your Zendesk user account password, and can be regenerated or disabled again later at any time.

To create a Zendesk API token for use with the script, follow these steps:

1. Log into your Zendesk user account at this URL: https://help.basho.com/
2. Navigate to this URL: https://help.basho.com/settings/api/
3. Click the **Enabled** checkbox inside the **Token Access** section to enable your user account API token
4. Make note of the 40 character string after *Your API token is:*
5. Click Save

## Issues and Caveats

There are potential issues and caveats with this process:

* Storing multiple instances of the documentation in this manner could pose problems when searching for help. For example, how do we ensure that the results of a search are what the customer actually needs, and not a version that is two point releases back from what they are looking for help with?

* Storing the version number of the documentation in the `<current-tags>` element is not effective from a reader's perspective in our present implementation of Zendesk forums, as tags are not visibly rendered to the page, and so the information they convey is hidden to the reader.

* The `zdfversion.py` is a very simple implementation, and uses only the minimal Zendesk API calls to function, so for example, it cannot be used to delete an "oops" when creating a new forum and snapshotting documentation into it.

* The `zdfversion.py` script does not currently handle additional forum metadata such as comments or file attachments, but it is a planned capability for a subsequent version.

* There are some bits left in the script for other operations which are not part of the current process. These will be cleaned up soon.
